Prompt: Take a look at the number of women who study Computer Science. Do any of these numbers surprise you?

Unfortunately, the numbers don’t surprise me but are illuminating to an issue that I am very passionate about. As a Women in Tech scholar winner in the UK office, I have completely changed careers to become a developer and have benefitted from a positive discrimination programme run by ThoughtWorks to address the disparity of diversity of tech workers at TW, so this issue is something that I find personal and very important. What I see from these statistics reminds me of my own experiences with a relationship to tech and studying anything considered ‘hard sciences’. I can remember as early as elementary school being discouraged by teachers to focus on math, saying I am pretty and don’t need to worry too much if I don’t understand something. In this way I can feel the personal weight of these statistics, but there is also something to be said about the cultural discourse around empowering women and postcolonial attitudes as it is important to compare the statistics between countries and regions considered ‘first world’ and those considered ‘third world’ or totalitarian. It is not surprising to me that 70% of science and engineering students in Iran as of 2006 were women - this being by far the largest ‘positive’ statistic on the document (though I would also be interested in seeing what these statistics are currently, if they have remained the same or differed in any way), as I have had the pleasure to meet and learn from Iranian women technologists along my journey. However, we continue to use a discourse in the west on Iran as a totalitarian ‘Muslim’ country that oppresses women, and yet they prove to have the strongest statistics for having women in careers and tech that is considered to be ‘mens subjects’ in regions such as North America and Europe. While much could be explored on this, coming from my gender studies background this makes me questions what exactly are we doing in American and European societies to hold back women in these sectors and from embracing these subjects from an early age - especially as we have dominated and dictated the discourse on women empowerment for decades (to an imperialist level. Other questions that come to my mind are why are the statistics for women in countries with a strong CS history (though this is relative to a western bias) or industry have some of the worst equality statistics? Is this a legacy issue or larger gender equality issue? Also,.I would be interested in digging deeper into the statistics collection to see how they define ‘women’ and ‘men’ to see if this includes trans-women and men or non-binary people as I also believe opening the concept of gender empowerment to more inclusive concepts of gender as this can only strengthen movements and actions taken to shorten the gap.