Imperialism and Inequality

1. What is the Gini coefficient in your country? Is there a country that has a more fair income distribution? Which country do you think is more "fair?"

The Gini coefficient in my countries of the UK and the USA as of 2014 (the latest data I could find) is 0.358 (UK) and 0.394 (US). Both of these are considered some of the highest GC ratings and signify the continued inequality in my own countries when it comes to income distribution. Even though we are ‘making more’ money than previous generations, if the inequality exists and grows then the value of that increased income is only a symptom of inflation and not a higher standard of living. Some of the other countries that have a lower GC or income distribution include most of the Nordic countries such as Iceland (0.244), Norway (0.252), Denmark (0.254), Finland (0.257) and Sweden (0.281), which in some ways does not come as a surprise given their well known social and welfare policies coupled with low populations. Also with lower GC are countries Slovenia (0.255), Czech Republic (0.262), and the Slovak Republic (0.269). There are other European countries with a GC lower than 30%, which is considered a low Gini coefficient, however I do not think that this means ‘fairness’ in all situations. Focusing on the two groups listed above one could assume that there is more ‘fairness’ to the Nordic country GCs rather than for Slovenia, CZ and SR given that general economic knowledge for the latter countries leads me to believe that the equality of income still lies in an equality of poverty - that the income is more equal doesn’t highlight the fact that the income may be lower and the social mobility worse. This flaw in the Gini Coefficient has been looked at with the inclusion of Gini coefficients on education and opportunity, but for me it raises a red flag at how large international organisations such as the World Bank and OECD comprehend ‘fairness’. 

2. Did you learn anything from these? If so, what? Was there something you disagreed with? Which side should India should have been on during World War II?

I enjoyed these readings as while I had a general knowledge about these specific issues under the umbrella of imperialism and colonialism, it was very interesting to read more explicitly about individuals and their actions during this time as my knowledge is more theoretically based. I particularly enjoyed the Oatmeal’s defiance of terrible human being Christopher Columbus, not only because the illustrations and humour are entertaining, but also the balance of the perspective of Bartolome who seems to be one of the only remaining historical witnesses to the genocide committed against the natives. I also knew that India had been brought into a famine as the result of WWII, but I didn’t know the extent of the delusion Churchill had regarding revering colonialism. Reading history always makes me look for links where it is repeating itself today, and the 3 different viewpoints and subsequent famine and inflation that decimated India during the war (and leading to long term consequences afterward) frighteningly reminds me of the situation that Puerto Rico is in today, though at the hands of the Americans. In regards as to what ‘side’ India should have fought on during that time, my real answer and wish would have been to say nobody’s. But as a colonial key to the prosperity of the British Empire, I know that would have been impossible. I don’t believe though that taking on the responsibility to fight on either side would prove a better economic, social or humane outcome for India. While the information presented here does make me wonder if India had fought with the Axis maybe a famine could have been avoided, I also feel sickened by what that would have brought upon India with the war effort shifting to the south Pacific by the Americans and the use of nuclear warfare. Would the Americans dropped a bomb there eventually as a result? While the question of ‘which side’ definitely unpacks how powerless colonialism had left India and the devastation this caused, I don’t think there is any good answer to this as if anything it shows how complex relations can be - but it also demonstrates how dangerous the egos of men in power are.


3. First, I just wanted to point out that the link for the colonial Africa image shows an incomplete image: http://resourcesforhistoryteachers.wikispaces.com/file/view/Colonial_Africa_1914_map.png/205716466/Colonial_Africa_1914_map.png 

Secondly, I think the readings for this section were very approachable though obviously it is impossible to make an all inclusive section on Imperialism. 

As some recommendations, this was recently sent around the UK office and I think it does a good job at looking at inequality in an engaging way and also brings the discussion to a different region:

http://www.digitalartsonline.co.uk/news/illustration/these-clever-wheres-wally-style-illustrations-highlight-lack-of-women-in-science-tech/

I also generally have seen a lack of reading and discussion around queer issues as a whole, and this is something that absolutely could be addressed as part of the imperialism and inequality section - particularly as homophobia remains a tool for xenophobia and racism in the west as well as something that was spread around the world through colonialism and anti-gay British laws. Some articles that could be considered (though they aren’t perfect by any means) include:

http://foreignpolicy.com/2012/06/19/british-colonialism-and-anti-gay-laws/

https://bitchmedia.org/article/one-nation-under-hate/homonationalism-donald-trump